Regular expression  is a sequence of characters that define a pattern. These patterns can be used in find and/or replace algorithms, or for input validation.
-   `/` : All regexes are enclosed within **forward slashes** to indicate where they begin and where they end.
-   `^` : The **circumflex accent** matches the beginning of the string or the beginning of the line. This means your pattern will not match anything that has any text before it. Example: `/^Once upon a time/` will match any line beginning with that sentence.
-   `$` : The **dollar sign** matches the end of the string. The opposite of the `^`. Example: `/ation$/` will match any line ending with the string "ation".
-   `[]` : **Brackets** are used to match a single character from the list enclosed in them. For example, `/[abc]/` This will match either **a**, **b** or **c**. Regexes accept ranges of letters as well, such as **a-z** or **d-m**, and even several ranges like **\[a-f0-6\]** (a to f and zero to 6).
-   `*` : An **asterisk** acts as a **quantifier** to specify that the preceding character may appear 0 to n times. Example: `/[ab]\*/` will match **abab**, **aaaaaaa**, but it will also match an empty string.
-   `+` : **Plus sign** is similar to `*`, except that the preceding character has to appear at least once, meaning it will match the same strings as the previous example, except for the empty string.
-   `{}`: The **braces** are used when you want to specify the number of times the preceding character should appear. Writing a single number within braces will match the strings that contain the preceding character or pattern that exact amount of times. Braces can also include ranges. If you want a string that contains 4 to 8 characters, you can use `{4,8}` to validate it.