# Security operation center

SOC Is a collection of people processes procedures and tools responsible for identifying, analyzing and responding to security threat facing an organization. 

SOC also goes by other names 
-   ISOC: Information Security Operations Center
-   NSOC: Network Security Operations Center
-   SIOC: Security Intelligence and Operations Center
-   IPC: Infrastructure Protection Center


Many organization deploy a [[defense in depth]] principle having multiple layers of defense to help detect and prevent security threats. SOC is just one of these layers to help protect.

## SOC analyst
An soc analyst daily task involve investigating alerts, network traffics and other logs for [[IOC]], all of this data is normal ingested into a [[SIEM]] there the data can be viewed in real time, cross examination, allowing the analyst to investigate incidents. 
Analyst often comes in tiers, separated by responsibility and skill. 
The main part of a analyst is the investigation elements. Eye for details and thoroughness. failing to detected potential threat could be disastrous.
-   A strong understanding of information systems.
-   Knowledge of IT operations.
-   An understanding of the motivations behind cyber attacks, and tools and techniques used to launch them.
-   A solid understanding of security concepts, such as perimeter security, technical controls, data loss prevention, kill chain analysis, and security metrics.
-   An ability to assess risks and escalate issues when needed.


## tools 
-   **Security Incident and Event Management [[SIEM]]**: Tool that ingests logs and data from different applications, hardware and other security solutions to provide real-time analysis of different alerts generated by incidents and events that occur.
-   **Security Orchestration, Automation and Response [[SOAR]]**
-   **Governance, Risk and Compliance [[GRC]]**
-   **Threat Intelligence Feeds [[TIF]]s**
-   **Threat Intelligence Platform [[TIP]]**
-   **[[Firewall]]**: Used to monitor and control incoming and outgoing network traffic. Next generation firewalls use deep packet inspection to identify malicious traffic more accurately.
-   **Intrusion Detection Systems [[IDS]]**: Tools for intrusion detection and prevention of network attacks, as well as physical detection tools like wireless intrusion prevention. The purpose of these solutions is to warn analysts of potential attacks (detection) and actively block potential attacks (prevention).